---
title: "4.5 Configure Azure MFA settings"
date: 2021-01-30T13:59:19+03:00
---

#### Task 5: Configure Azure MFA settings.

In this task, you will configure MFA and enable MFA for aaduser1. 

1. In the Azure portal, navigate back to the **AdatumLab500-04** Azure Active Directory tenant blade.

    >**Note**: Make sure you are using the AdatumLab500-04 Azure AD tenant.

1. On the **AdatumLab500-04** Azure Active Directory tenant blade, in the **Manage** section, click **Security**.

1. On the **Security \| Getting started** blade, in the **Manage** section, click **MFA**.

1. On the **Multi-Factor Authentication \| Getting started** blade, click the **Additional cloud-based MFA settings** link. 

    >**Note**: This will open a new browser tab, displaying **multi-factor authentication** page.

1. On the **multi-factor authentication** page, click the **service settings** tab. Review **verification options**. Note that **Text message to phone**, **Notification through mobile app**, and **Verification code from mobile app or hardware token** are enabled. Click **Save** and then click **close**.

1. Switch to the **users** tab, click **aaduser1** entry, click the **Enable** link, and, when prompted, click **enable multi-factor auth**.

1. Notice the **Multi-Factor Auth status** column for **aaduser1** is now **Enabled**.

1. Click **aaduser1** and notice that, at this point, you also have the **Enforce** option. 

    >**Note**: Changing the user status from Enabled to Enforced impacts only legacy Azure AD integrated apps which do not support Azure MFA and, once the status changes to Enforced, require the use of app passwords.

1. With the **aaduser1** entry selected, click **Manage user settings** and review the available options: 

   - Require selected users to provide contact methods again.

   - Delete all existing app passwords generated by the selected users.

   - Restore multi-factor authentication on all remembered devices.

1. Click **Cancel** and switch back to the browser tab displaying the **Multi-Factor Authentication \| Getting started** blade in the Azure portal.

1. In the **Settings** section, click **Fraud alert**.

1. On the **Multi-Factor Authentication \| Fraud alert** blade, configure the following settings:

   |Setting|Value|
   |---|---|
   |Allow users to submit fraud alerts|**On**|
   |Automatically block users who report fraud|**On**|
   |Code to report fraud during initial greeting|**0**|

1. Click **Save**

    >**Note**: At this point, you have enabled MFA for aaduser1 and setup fraud alert settings. 

1. Navigate back to the **AdatumLab500-04** Azure Active Directory tenant blade, in the **Manage** section, click **Properties**, next click the **Manage Security defaults** link at the bottom of the blade, on the **Enable Security Defaults** blade, click **No**. Select **My Organization is using Conditonal Access** as the reason and and then click **Save**.

    >**Note**: Ensure that you are signed-in to the **AdatumLab500-04** Azure AD tenant. You can use the **Directory + subscription** filter to switch between Azure AD tenants. Ensure you are signed in as a user with the Global Administrator role in the Azure AD tenant.
